in the Gaza Strip Israeli forces are
pressing their offensive further south
where Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu said they aimed to take
control of gaza's border with Egypt in
the last 24 hours air strikes and
artillery fire there have killed dozens
of civilians according to the Hamas run
Health Ministry and that has put even
more pressure on displaced Palestinians
seeking Refuge from the
violence as Israel plans to take control
of the area around gaza's border with
Egypt displaced Palestinians Crown the
streets of Rafa the town right next to
that
border they have come here to escape
intense fighting in South and Central
Gaza they flee with just the Bare
Essentials everyone is looking for
shelter and space is running
out we came here 20 days ago we couldn't
find any place to put a tent so we're
staying at the stairs of the
mosque the situation is
tragic we don't have drinking water we
don't have food the kids wake up in the
morning wanting to eat without water to
drink it took us one hour to find water
for them we could not find flour even
when we want to take them to the toilets
it took us an hour to walk
there Aid organizations are struggling
to provide basic San ation facilities to
cope with a rising number of people in
Rafa these 40 stalls serve an area where
many hundreds now
live adding to the spiraling
humanitarian crisis the war
continues in central Gaza rescue workers
race to find survivors at the magazi
camp after Israeli strikes in the area
and Israel's Army is pushing into the
southern city of KH yunas as they try to
eliminate Hamas which is widely
considered a terrorist
organization as the intense conflict
moves further south displaced
Palestinians are running out of places
to
flee Ahmed bam of the Norwegian
Norwegian Refugee council is based in
Aman Jordan and joins us now um what's
the latest your hear in from your
colleagues in Gaza what's the situation
like there for people as Israel steps up
its ground
assault good morning uh the situation is
quite horrifying in terms of uh more
displacement people moving from uh the
central areas to the South there's a
massive outbreak of of diseases people
falling sick for in symptoms that no one
can can uh you know try to find out what
these symptoms are because there's no
capacity there's there's no off doctors
and there's no medication uh for these
people we're talking about 20% now of
people who have fallen ill in Gaza um
that's 400,000 people our teams of
course I mean communication has been
down for quite some time now so we can
hardly get a word in or hear what is
going on exactly besides that you know
our teams are alive even the a situation
now is is deteriorating we had some hope
after the security Council voted uh more
aid but we don't see that uh
materializing on the ground and of
course young agencies and others have
raised that plan as well so our teams
are working under some of the most
impossible conditions without uh you
know enough food for their own children
without enough water for their own for
their own family and my team has now you
know my colleagues have learned how to
construct a tent and and the Lin now
this is what you know situation has been
reduced this is what life has been
reduced to in
Gaza I mean the UN Agency for Palestine
refugees has estimated that more than
40% of gazin are at risk of famine how
much food can you actually get to those
people most in
need not much I mean you know without
getting into this game of of truck
counting even though yesterday for
example we only had 100 trucks and of
course not will not all of them will
will be you know uh bringing food for
people but you're talking about a
constant state of hunger that now
families of three or four children have
to choose who is the hungriest to give
them the next tint of food now you know
people have to queue for long long time
to get hold of a bag of bread if that is
even
available and of course we're talking
about probably um you know when this
hopefully eventually ends this this you
know crazy level of of violence when all
this ends we will be looking at some of
the you know most horrific
malnourishment numbers that will take
you know probably months and years to
overturn so now we are genuinely worried
about children consuming very very
little food and consuming um you know uh
contaminated water this will create a
health disaster for for months to come
really in in in Gaza
[Music]
I'm bam of the Norwegian Refugee Council
in Aman thank
you
thanks